Add Word Guesser Game Project Tutorial (#143)
codedex-io/projects: projects/build-a-word-guessing-game-with-python/build-a-word-guessing-game-with-python.mdx

```

Now, we will use the random module we previously installed to choose one of these words randomly to be the correct answer. 🎲

```py
word = random.choice(word_bank)
```

This line of code essentially selects a random element from the `word_bank` list and assigns it to the variable `word`. The `random.choice` function is used to pick one string from the list, with all possible options having an equal probability of being chosen.

## Finishing the Setup

We don't want to reveal the letters of the word we're trying to guess initially, so we need a list of underscores as “placeholders” to represent letters that haven't been guessed yet. The number of empty letter placeholders should directly correspond with the number of letters the word has. (i.e. the word “apple” should have five underscores as placeholders because there are five letters) 

```py
guessedWord = ['_'] * len(word)
```

In Python, you can multiply a list by an integer and the list will repeat that amount of times. The `[`_`]` creates a list with a single underscore element, while the `len(word)` function returns the length (in the number of letters/characters) of the string `word`. 

> The final part of the setup before the game loop will be determining how many attempts or guesses the player has at guessing the word. We will be using 10 for this tutorial, but you can make it any number you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll finish setting by determining how many attempts the player has at guessing the word. We will be using 10 for this tutorial, but you can make it any number you want.
```

```py
attempts = 10
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Go ahead and save the file and let's move on to the game loop!

```

### Game Loop

> We need to create a while loop so the player can continuously guess until they run out of `attempts` or guess the word correctly. 🔁

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to create a `while` loop so the player can continuously guess until they run out of `attempts` or guess the word correctly. 🔁
```

```py
while attempts > 0:
```

Each time the loop runs, we will display the current state of the word being guessed. 

```py

> while attempts > 0:
> 
>     print('\nCurrent word: ' + ' '.join(guessedWord))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while attempts > 0:
  print('\nCurrent word: ' + ' '.join(guessedWord))
```

```

> The statement is printed on a new line via `\n`, and joins the strings in `guessedWord` together with spaces. For example, if the state of `guessedWord` is `['a', '_', 'p', '_', 'e']`, the operation would result in the string `”a _ p _ e”`, making the program look smoother and less clunky.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The statement is printed on a new line via `\n`, and joins the strings in `guessedWord` together with spaces. For example, if the state of `guessedWord` is `['a', '_', 'p', '_', 'e']`, the result would be the string `"a _ p _ e"`, making the program look smoother and less clunky.
```

Since the guessing is based on user input, we need to prompt the user to guess a letter and store it in a variable.

```py
guess = input('Guess a letter: ')
```

> We then need to determine whether or not the guessed letter is contained in the correct word. If it is, we loop through each letter of the word to find which position the letter is in and replace the placeholder with that same letter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then need to determine whether or not the guessed letter is in the correct word. If it is, we loop through each letter of the word to find which position the letter is in and replace the placeholder with the guessed letter.
```

```py

> if guess in word:
>     for i in range(len(word)):
>         if word[i] == guess:
>             guessedWord[i] = guess
>     print('Great guess!')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if guess in word:
  for i in range(len(word)):
    if word[i] == guess:
      guessedWord[i] = guess
  print('Great guess!')
```

```

> The `for i in range(len(word)):` loop goes over each index of the word from 0 to the length of the word minus one, allowing it to check every letter. If the letter is at position `i` matches the player’s guess, it updates the position in the `guessedWord` list. We'll print out some positive feedback to let the user know that they guessed correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `for` loop goes over each index of the `word`, to check every letter. If the letter at position `i` matches the player’s guess, it updates the position in the `guessedWord` list. We'll print out some positive feedback to let the user know that they guessed correctly.
```

> Furthermore, we need to write some code that handles situations where the user guesses incorrectly. If the player’s guess is not in the word, the number of `attempts` decreases by one. Since `attempts` is an integer, we must also convert it to a string to let the player know how many attempts they have left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, we need to write some code that handles situations where the user guesses incorrectly. If the player's guess is not in the word, the number of `attempts` decreases by one. Since `attempts` is an integer, we must also convert it to a string to let the player know how many attempts they have left.
```

```py
else:
  attempts -= 1
  print('Wrong guess! Attempts left: ' + str(attempts))
```

> We're almost done! We'll know if the player has won the game when they guess all the letters in the word. If there are no more underscores as placeholders in the `guessedWord` variable, there are no more blanks left. When the player wins, we will break the while loop which ends the program/game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're almost done! We'll know if the player has won the game when they guess all the letters in the word. If there are no more underscores as placeholders in the `guessedWord` variable, there are no more blanks left. When the player wins, we will break the `while` loop and end the game.
```

```py
  if '_' not in guessedWord:
        print('\nCongratulations!! You guessed the word: ' + word)
        break
```

Finally, we need a condition that results in a loss for the player when they run out of `attempts` and reveal the correct word.

```py
else:
    print('\nYou\'ve run out of attempts! The word was: ' + word)
```

**Note:** We don't need to break the `while` loop because the condition was `while attempts > 0`.

When you're finished, the game loop should look something like this: 

```py
while attempts > 0:
   
    print('\nCurrent word: ' + ' '.join(guessedWord))

>     guess = input("Guess a letter: ").lower()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    guess = input('Guess a letter: ').lower()
```

   
    if guess in word:
        for i in range(len(word)):
            if word[i] == guess:
                guessedWord[i] = guess

>         print("Great guess!")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        print('Great guess!')
```

    else:
        attempts -= 1

>         print("Wrong guess! Attempts left: " + str(attempts))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        print('Wrong guess! Attempts left: ' + str(attempts))
```

    if '_' not in guessedWord:

>         print("\nCongratulations!! You guessed the word: " + word)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        print('\nCongratulations!! You guessed the word: ' + word)
```

        break
else:

>     print('\nYou've run out of attempts! The word was: ' + word)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    print('\nYou\'ve run out of attempts! The word was: ' + word)
```

>     print('\nYou've run out of attempts! The word was: ' + word)

Reviewer: Should this `else` be indented?

```

## Conclusion

Congratulations! You have completed the project! 🎉🎊

In this tutorial, you used the following to build a word-guessing game:

- The `random` module
- List and string operations
- Input/output handling
- Control flow statements

Now, you can enjoy this game you built yourself, or with friends!

> If you would like to challenge yourself, try to add a “hangman” stick figure that is changed every time the user guesses a character incorrectly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to challenge yourself, try to add a ["hangman" stick figure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hangman_(game)) that is changed every time the user guesses a character incorrectly.
```

## More Resources

> 

Reviewer: Don't forget to include a link to the tutorial's source code~
